The Andhra Pradesh Police will make extensive use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in enforcing law and order, prevent crimes, establish evidence, and reduce investigation time, Chief Minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu has said. Addressing a large gathering of senior IPS officers, students, and representatives from AI developing companies during ‘AI 4 Andhra Police Hackathon’ of the A.P. Police Department held at RVR&JC College, Guntur, on Friday, Mr. Naidu said it was the first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. He said 160 institutions applied for participation, out of which only 60 were selected for the hackathon. Based on use cases, the department would adopt new technology, to complement the existing drone surveillance, CCTV cameras, realtime governance and other initiatives, the Chief Minister said, adding development is possible only by ensuring law and order, and warned that there is no space for criminals in the State. “We are going to show the strength of Telugu people to the world through AI and Quantum Valley,” Mr. Naidu said. Stating that Andhra’s WhatsApp Governance is based on AI technology, he said all certificates will be issued on the platform from coming August. ‘‘We are at the beginning of AI era, and students must focus on startup ideas,’‘ Mr. Naidu said. Referring to fears over loss of employment due to AI, the Chief Minister said there would be lot of opportunities for students in this technology. He suggested that RVR&JC management ensure hundred per cent placements while encouraging 30% of the students to develop startups. Citing former

MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case, he said that Google Takeout helped in establishing evidence, highlighting the adoption of technology by the police in investigation. Calling the Chief Minister a visionary who has been transforming governance by taking advantage of advanced technology, Union Minister of State for Rural Development Pemmasani Chandra Sekhar said Quantum Valley in Amaravati is going to be a reality in the near future. He said the Chief Minister introduced many e-governance initiatives in the past and is now focusing on AI and Quantum Technology. Mr. Naidu transformed Hyderabad into an IT hub and has now set his sights on turning Amaravati into a Quantum Valley, Mr. Pemmasani added. The Home Minister, Vangalapudi Anitha, said it is for the first time that a hackathon has been organised by the police in the country. DGP Harish Kumar Gupta said the initiative will help reimagine the future of law enforcement through Generative AI and Agentic AI. More than 30 IPS officers closely worked with knowledge partner 4SightAI to identify and refine the most pressing challenges in policing. As a result, eight real-world, high-impact use cases were developed for direct deployment. Published - June 27, 2025 08:55 pm IST

