The Andhra Pradesh Transmission Corporation (APTransco) has released the day-ahead electricity forecasting model using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to forecast next day's electricity consumption, including a day-ahead electricity demand for every 15 minutes. The development will enable the AP State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) officials to take decisions on electricity demand and supply, grid management and minimise power purchase cost. The model is developed by Google and World Bank together, with SLDC working on the initiative inhouse. Identifying potential school dropout rate using AI Schools in India have been plagued by high dropout rates, especially at the upper elementary and secondary levels in the backward sections of the society. This trend is capable of causing a major dent in the human resource ambitions of the country. In light of increasing dropouts, the Andhra Pradesh government has been working in partnership with Microsoft to cover more than 5 million students in 10000+ schools as of 2017. By leveraging the power of machine learning and analytics, a Microsoft app is able to predict the chances of a student dropping out, based on patterns identified from complex datasets. This initiative by the South Indian state is aimed at taking corrective actions to keep young people in school by drafting proactive policies aided by AI-based intervention. Helping farmers to increase crop yields using AI: The deep learning analytics solution implemented in Chittoor district helps local farmers to remotely monitor the crops, increase the crop’s nutritional value and to reduce water consumption

by up to 40%. This is done to meet the central government's target of doubling of farmers’ income by the year 2022. Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s Center of Excellence (CoE) and the Bengaluru based NGO Agastya International Foundation, set up AI and IoT technologies in the local farms of Guipalli, Chitoor. The solutions includes edge compute HPE Edgeline EL300, onsite IoT modules, drone imaging and analysis, a user interface and dashboard for monitoring and reporting of various on-ground parameters and activities at the fields. AI-based ID system for pensioners The Andhra Pradesh government has announced the introduction of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) based Realtime Beneficiary Identification System (RBIS). The RBIS will replace the age-old PDO system which is currently in place for pensioner identification. The system has already been deployed in East and West Godavaries and Krishan districts for the last three months, as part of an experiment. AI for recording attendance of school teachers In an effort to combat teacher absenteeism, the Andhra Pradesh government will deploy facial recognition software to nearly 1.89 lakh government teachers. The teachers will have to record their own attendance twice a day through the system. In the Guntur district, the model was deployed. Teachers were punching in their attendance through an Aadhar-enabled biometric attendance system. National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), in a joint partnership with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and Government of Andhra Pradesh inaugurated the ‘Centre of Excellence on IoT and AI’ at Andhra University Campus

in Visakhapatnam on 30 November. This is aimed at promoting innovation in emerging technologies of IoT, AI, robotics, etc.

