Vijayawada: The municipal administration and urban development dept will soon launch a focused ‘smart mosquito control' programme using deep technology to check vector-borne diseases. The artificial intelligence-powered smart mosquito surveillance system (SMoSS) would be launched on a pilot basis at 66 locations in six major municipal corporations in the state. SMoSS will primarily safeguard public health by curbing the dreaded mosquito menace, besides reducing operational burden on civic staff and helping in cutting costs of urban local bodies. The programme will be closely and monitored with the help of internet-of-things like drones, sensors, heat maps, and traps. "We will launch the pilot project at 16 locations in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, four in Kakinada, five in Rajamahendravaram, 28 in Vijayawada, seven in Nellore, and six in Kurnool," said P Sampath Kumar, director of municipal administration. Principal secretary Suresh Kumar and Sampath Kumar recently studied the AI-powered SMoSS, developed by a private agency, to assess its efficacy. The AI-powered smart mosquito sensors will be installed in key mosquito-prone zones in the selected municipal cities and towns as part of the pilot project. These smart sensors will detect the mosquito species, their gender, density, temperature and humidity. SMoSS will trigger automatic alerts when mosquito density crosses a threshold level in any particular area. Data thus generated will be continuously streamed to a central server and visualized on a real-time dashboard. "This will enable close monitoring and ensure prompt fumigation in the affected areas in a data-driven approach for effective control of mosquitoes

instead of the present ‘blind spraying' process that has little impact. The IoT sensors will monitor mosquito density and guide the targeted activity," explained Sampath Kumar. Use of drones for spraying the larvicide would result in an efficient application by covering large areas with less chemical use, time and also cost. Evidence-based spraying, prevention of chemical overuse and promotion of public health safety are the key elements in the whole operation. "We plan to outsource the operations completely to specialized agencies and payment will be result-oriented by fixing operational accountability. Complaints, if any, from the citizens and field-level functionaries will be tracked via mobile applications (Vector Control and Puramitra)," said principal secretary Suresh Kumar.

