ITANAGAR, Aug 19: Giving another significant push to encourage indigenous start-ups, Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Tuesday announced to expand Arunachal Pradesh Innovation and Investment Park (APIIP) premises to accommodate more entrepreneurs from present 50 per year and enhance ambit of Arunachal Pradesh Entrepreneurship Development Programme (APEDP). APIIP was set up in August 2020 under Planning, Investment & Finance department as state’s marquee incubator of Arunachal Pradesh Start-Up Policy.It basically holds annual start-up challenges to identify potential entrepreneurs and besides providing seed money, nine-month incubation and pre-incubation to support selected entrepreneurs to attain commercial success. “In just four years, we have supported 106 startups across three cohorts, providing over ₹4.5 crore seed money, 38% of them women-led enterprises. These startups represent true diversity of state’s agriculture, handicrafts, IT, e-commerce, and tourism,” he said. He hailed APIIP’s historic step this year to become first state in India to adopt Artificial Intelligence (AI) for shortlisting startup applications and 50 bright new startups were selected. He, however, felt that selecting only 50 startups per year is not enough. Thu, he suggested to expand APIIP building and assured support, either in renting a readily available near existing building or build a new one. Khandu along with Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein also gave away graduation certificates to Cohort-3 and prize money to Cohort-4startups. Meanwhile, APIIP signed MoUs with seven educational institutions as mentors of new startups. The are Arunachal Pradesh University, Pasighat, Arunachal University of Studies, Namsai, Dorjee Khandu Govt College, Tawang, Dera Natung

Govt College, Itanagar, NERIST, Nirjuli, NIT, Jote and Rajiv Gandhi University, Rono Hills. The CM termed it as another milestone and said startup cells will be set up within these institutions, to nurture student innovations and ensuring that no good idea is left unsupported. Khandu acknowledged visionary leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose call for a Viksit Bharat @2047 has inspired the GoAPto take these innovative initiatives. “His (Modi’s) Startup India mission has transformed India’s entrepreneurial landscape – from garages to global IPOs, from small towns to big tech hubs. In Arunachal Pradesh, every road built, every enterprise supported, every dream encouraged, is a step towards Viksit Arunachal,” he said. The GoAP has launched YES (Youth Empowerment Sphere) Arunachal, one-stop platform for all Govt schemes to empower youthto become successful entrepreneurs, Khandu said and expressed optimism that APIIP will make this initiative a grand success. The investment cell of Planning, Investment & Finance in department ofcannot remain a mere ‘cell’, the CM said and suggested to upgrade it to a directorate to independently explore ways and means to invest in budding entrepreneurs and their innovative startups. Several cabinet ministers, chief secretary, commissioner, representatives of Start-Up India and educational institutions and mentors of Delhi IIT and Shillong IIM were also present. (CMO)

