Patna: In a major stride towards citizen-centric governance, state chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena on Friday launched several digital platforms and initiatives under the Bihar Prashasnik Sudhar Mission Society (BPSMS) of the general administration department (GAD). These include an online portal for appeal and review under the Right to Public Service (RTPS) and a mobile app enabling govt employees to manage leave requests, service book details and corrections. According to an official press release, the RTPS digital platform is a mechanism under the Bihar Right to Public Services Act, 2011. It allows citizens to file appeals and request reviews online in case of delays or denial of public services. With features such as paperless processing, digital signatures and real-time dashboards, the system is aimed at enhancing transparency, efficiency and accessibility. "Technology must serve the people and this portal ensures that the right to timely services is not just a promise, but a practical reality," said Meena. "GAD and BPSMS have introduced several milestones in e-governance through technological innovation in line with current needs." The newly launched human resource management system (HRMS) app enables govt employees and officers to apply for leave and manage HR services from their smartphones. "The iOS version of the app is expected to be launched soon," the press release said. Also announced was the rollout of Phase II of the HRMS platform, which will expand digital access to services related to disciplinary proceedings, pensions, insurance, promotions, training and exit management. A key highlight of the event

was the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between BPSMS and SBI General Insurance Company Limited to provide group health insurance (GHI) to contractual employees. This scheme will benefit 3,560 contractual staff, including 2,850 executive assistants, 608 IT assistants and 102 IT managers, across state, district, sub-divisional and block-level departments. The policy offers Rs 5 lakh in annual cashless health insurance per employee with the Rs 1.42 crore annual premium plus GST fully covered by the Mission Society. The MoU is valid for three years and is extendable. Beneficiaries will have access to treatment in over 17,500 hospitals across India, including 185 in Patna and 375 in Bihar. Speaking at the event, development commissioner Pratyaya Amrit said, "This initiative is of great benefit to contractual employees as it provides them with social security. Technology-enabled platforms bring transparency and good governance, ensuring not only efficiency but also compassion in administration."

