Raipur: Chhattisgarh's Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve (USTR) is piloting AI-powered cameras to detect elephants, leopards, sloth bears, and potential trespassers. Integrated with sirens, alerts, and SMS notifications to villagers and forest staff, the system complements Hathi Mitra Dal foot-patrolling teams, helping reduce human-wildlife casualties despite a dense wildlife presence. Using historic elephant movement data and infrared night-vision capability, the cameras will be installed at corridor entry points near the most vulnerable villages. The reserve also plans to launch an online compensation system by January 2026 to fast-track payments for crop, livestock, property losses, and human injuries — combining traditional conservation practices with modern technology to protect both wildlife and communities. "In order to minimise man-animal conflict in USTR, the Chhattisgarh Forest Department, in collaboration with startup Kalpvaig Technologies, successfully tested an AI camera that can recognise elephants, leopards, sloth bears, and even suspected trespassers," said USTR Deputy Director Varun Jain. The AI cameras are trained to identify wildlife — primarily elephants — and automatically trigger sirens installed in villages, while sending alert calls and SMS notifications to forest staff and villagers. The camera locations are determined using three years of historic data from the Elephant Tracking and Alert App launched in 2023. Each unit can detect animal movement from up to 50 metres away, even at night. The Hathi Mitra Dals and the alert app have already helped bring down human casualties caused by wildlife to just two in the past three years, despite the presence of more than 40 elephants

and 100 leopards across USTR's 120 villages situated in its core and buffer zones. USTR continues to blend traditional forestry methods — such as anti-poaching operations, removal of encroachments, habitat development, and installation of solar pumps — with advanced AI-based tools to effectively manage human-animal conflict. Information on payments related to human casualties, loss of property, crops, houses, and other damages caused by wild elephants as of September 2025.

