Panaji: Plans to set up a Global Capability Centre and a Centre of Excellence in AI and machine learning are firming up, said chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday at the Goa Open Innovation Challenge 2025 — Market Access Expo. He also announced that the proposed State Data Centre will help provide secure, scalable infrastructure for e-governance, GIS (geographic information system) mapping of govt assets and services, and the delivery of essential govt services. “I am pleased to share that there are plans to set up a Global Capability Centre in Goa. It will support IT firms, startups, and new industries,” he said. “This major project will help create jobs, attract investment, and push Goa’s ITES (information technology enabled services) and digital economy over time.” The CM added, “A Centre of Excellence is also being planned to develop advanced skills, encourage research, and promote collaboration between the industry and educational institutes, especially in the areas of AI and machine learning.” Sawant said Goa has 635 startups recognised by the Centre’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, with 281 certified under the state’s IT promotion cell, and financial assistance of Rs 3.9 crore being disbursed to 147 startups so far. The chief minister also said that the coding and robotics programme for schools has already reached over 65,000 students in more than 440 schools. He said that the support being offered through various schemes such as the Rs 10 lakh startup assistance, Rs 15,000 salary support, and incubation opportunities

will benefit local startups. The Goa Open Innovation Challenge 2025 — Market Access Expo provides mentorship, market access, and momentum for startups. “Young Indians are being encouraged to create their own opportunities. Govt of Goa is working to create the right environment where startups can get funding, guidance, and real-world testing opportunities to grow and scale,” Sawant said. He urged startups, venture capitalists, innovators, and the IT ecosystem not to underestimate Goa. “Start small here and scale across India. We are building not just for ourselves, we are building for India,” Sawant said.

