Panaji: On Tuesday, Goa became the second state in the country to inaugurate the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI-ML) lab for its cybercrime cell. The lab will analyse cyber threats targeting locals online, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Goa also became the first state to introduce a locally developed mobile app called QuickPass, the CM said, which will enable road users to gain a pass valid for 24 hours, by submitting all documents online. This will prevent locals and tourists from being stopped for frequent checks by traffic police, Sawant said. The CM also opened the Cyber Yoddha programme, under which youth have been enrolled to create awareness on cyber security among citizens. Around 120 Cyber Yoddhas will be trained. They are volunteers from different sectors of society, including students, media professionals, teachers, NGOs, and senior citizens. They will act as cyber awareness ambassadors. Sawant said the Cyber Yoddhas’ performance will be reviewed after six months, and they will be provided ‘very good’ incentives for reporting up to 500 cyber threats. The dedicated cyber helpline, 1930, was also inaugurated. “Cybercrimes are one of the fastest growing crimes today and it is high time we bring about cyber and digital empowerment among citizens,” Sawant said. “On average in Goa, Rs 10 crore worth of cyber frauds are reported monthly and Rs 120 crore annually. To prevent these, we need to become aware about cybercrimes.” The CM added, “To spread awareness, we have created Cyber Yoddhas. Either through threats of arrest

or with the lure of heavy returns for investments, cyber fraudsters are targeting citizens.” He said that reporting a cybercrime within the first three hours will ensure a better recovery of the defrauded amount. The CM said Goa police have blocked 155 websites, 120 social media accounts, and 466 mobile numbers for fraudulent activities so far. “Govt notification has been issued already which allows us to take direct action against harmful content,” Sawant said. He said that initially, the number of cybercrimes reported may seem high, but this will be due to increased awareness. The number of cases will eventually dip after sufficient awareness has been created, he added. “The AI-ML lab is the second lab in the country after the one in Punjab. It analyses cyber threats, provides automated policing, and improved crime detection techniques. AI-driven frauds, which we cannot even imagine, have started taking place,” Sawant said. “We have created the lab to keep Goa safe and secure from cyber threats. Goa is setting an example for other states by adopting technology for public safety.” The AI-ML lab has been set up in collaboration with Samruddh Bharat Technologies Pvt Ltd, a Goa-based AI solutions startup. As for QuickPass, the CM said the app has been developed with the help of Padre Conceicao College of Engineering and is a Goan-owned startup, which has already been successfully tested on 4,200 persons. “Once you are issued a pass, for 24 hours you will not be stopped again. Tourists should not be

stopped again and again,” the CM said. “Tourists should follow all norms while driving like Goans do. This is the first time in the history of the country that such a pass has been developed. It will encourage innovation in other states as well. We are using the latest technologies to battle modern challenges. These initiatives will be a benchmark.”

