Chandigarh, April 25 – Haryana Chief Minister, Sh Nayab Singh Saini, emphasized that innovation is the cornerstone of progress in today’s competitive global landscape. He highlighted that emerging sectors like AI, machine learning, robotics, renewable energy, and biotechnology are the new pillars of a modern India. Haryana has taken significant steps to build a robust innovation ecosystem. The Chief Minister was addressing the International Conference Vision 2047: A Prosperous and Great India at Pusa Bhawan, New Delhi, today. On the second day of this three-day conference, he shared that Haryana has established incubation centers at its universities and set up tinkering labs in educational institutions. Moreover, the trend of research is being promoted among students to implement Atal Innovation on the ground. Haryana Innovation Hub has been set up in Gurugram and plans are underway to establish similar hubs in every district. Sh Saini stressed the significant role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in all sectors and facets of development. To leverage this potential, Haryana will establish an AI Mission and set up one hub each in Gurugram and Panchkula. These hubs will provide training in advanced technologies for over 50,000 youth and professionals from Haryana, helping them prepare for emerging job opportunities. The conference saw participation from notable institutions including the Swadeshi Research Institute, New Delhi, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Kurukshetra University, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Indira Gandhi Tribal University, Madhya Pradesh, and the University of Agder, Norway. Sh Nayab Singh Saini stated that the conference

is not just an ideological platform but also an inspiring opportunity to define shared aspirations, national goals, and future directions. The utilization of demographic potential and employment strategies is both timely and relevant. Education, entrepreneurship, innovation, and the stability of the youth population are key tools for effectively harnessing the power of the population. The Chief Minister urged everyone to imagine the year 2047, when India will celebrate its 100th anniversary of independence. As we commemorate this milestone, it will also be a time to reflect on how we have used our freedom to shape the nation’s path. Our collective efforts should focus on making India prosperous, powerful, and self-reliant. With this vision in mind, Prime Minister Sh Narendra Modi has set the ambitious goal of transforming India into a developed nation by 2047. He emphasised that this goal is the collective resolve of all 140 crore Indians. It takes us towards an India that is economically strong, socially inclusive and educationally and technologically advanced, self-reliant in all fields and has the ability to lead the world. This resolve is about bringing everyone together and fulfilling the dreams of all citizens. He also highlighted that India is home to the world’s largest youth population, with 65 percent of our population under the age of 35. This demographic dividend is our greatest strength, but it will only bear fruit if we provide quality education, develop skills, and connect our youth with innovation and entrepreneurship. The Chief Minister stated that Prime Minister

Sh Narendra Modi has launched several initiatives, such as Make in India, Skill India, Startup India, and the Skill Development Scheme, to provide positive direction to our youth power. Additionally, the new National Education Policy has been implemented to provide education to our new generation according to the needs of the 21st century. The Prime Minister has considered youth power as a crucial pillar for building a developed India, and we are working with this vision in Haryana. He highlighted that, despite its small size, Haryana is a powerful engine driving India’s economic progress. With a per capita income nearly double the national average; the state contributes 3.8 percent to India’s GDP. The Chief Minister emphasized that the state's greatest strength lies in its young population. The Chief Minister stated that education is the foundation upon which a prosperous and strong nation is built. In Haryana, we have taken concrete steps to ensure that education is both accessible and qualitative for all. Education has been linked to employment opportunities, and through the promotion of the dual education model, students are gaining practical work experience alongside their academic studies. Furthermore, subjects such as coding, AI, and digital literacy have been included at the school level itself. He said that after education, skill development is the bridge that takes the youth towards employment and entrepreneurship. Education from school to university has been linked with skills. NSQF has been started in schools and the PAHAL scheme in colleges. The Chief Minister stated that

Haryana is known for its strong agricultural economy, and our farmers are hardworking and progressive. However, with changing times, it is crucial to introduce innovation in farming as well. To this end, we are promoting vertical farming alongside traditional horizontal farming. Agricultural tourism is another innovative initiative that will generate new employment opportunities in rural areas. With this in mind, farm tourism is being actively promoted. He emphasized that the dream of a developed India will only be realized when we prioritize environmental protection. The Chief Minister stated that efforts are being made in Haryana based on the 3R principles – recycle, reuse, and reduce – to maintain a balance between development and environmental sustainability. Initiatives such as Ek Ped Maa Ke Naam, Har Gaon Pedon Ki Chhaon, Paudhagiri, and Har Ghar Hariyali are being implemented to make the state greener. He further added that Haryana will play a crucial role in transforming India into a developed and great nation by 2047. T

