National Innovation and Start up Policy-2019 for faculty and Students of Higher Education Institutions is initiated by MHRD’s Innovation Cell and AICTE. Jharkhand Rai University (JRU) adopted the NISP of AICTE and MHRD to encourage students as well research oriented faculty members towards Innovation and Entrepreneurship related activities. This framework will also facilitate the University administration in bringing uniformity in terms of Intellectual Property ownership, management, technology, licensing and University Startup policy. This enables in creation of a robust innovation and startup ecosystem within and beyond the campus. To achieve the most preferred destination for students to opt entrepreneurship and startup as a career option and enabling students for converting their ideas into viable and successful enterprises. Also to create a platform for faculty and staff for doing a cutting edge research, innovation and deep-tech entrepreneurship. - To orient the educational infrastructure of the University towards startups and entrepreneurship opportunities and Consultancy for student and faculties. - To promote student driven innovations & startups and to engage the students and faculty in innovation start up activities and Consultancy in campus. - To encourage and to support students, faculty and staff to consider startups and entrepreneurship as a career option. - To establish Incubation center in the University. - To strengthen the intra and inter institutional and industrial linkage with ecosystem enablers at different levels. - To provide Incubation facility for faculty driven start-up and student/Alumni start-up. - To help student groups to develop their ideas and then convert it into

small scale Startup. - To continue organizing FDP, seminars, workshops and expert talks for students, Faculty and Alumni to promote vibrant and dynamic Startup Ecosystem across all the departments. - To continue organizing FDP/Seminar/workshop on IPR - To organize Hackathon at University level. - To organize Global Entrepreneurship Summit. - To motivate student to participate in National/International level Hackathon - To offer courses on Innovation, Entrepreneurship, IPR and Start-ups. - To raise funds through government (state and central) and non-government agencies. - To collaborate with industries for consultancy and industrial projects. - To motivate faculty, staff and students for IPR application filing, grant and commercialization. - To produce a good number of Emerging successful Innovation and Start-ups from the University in the coming years. - To create societal, ethical and technological entrepreneurs through Jharkhand Rai University Innovation and Start-up Policy (JISP) 2021.

