With an increasing number of government departments implementing artificial intelligence (AI)-based initiatives, the Karnataka government has mandated approval from e-Governance AI-ML cell before launching such projects. The AI-ML cell, constituted under the department of personnel administrative and reforms (e-Governance), will now play a central role in vetting AI and machine-learning (ML) proposals. “All departments and registered organisations of the Karnataka government must obtain the consent of the AI-ML cell before implementing any AI/ML solutions," the order said. Also read: AI Cops! Bengaluru police pilots AI-generated avatars for social media outreach Consulting the AI-ML cell will help safeguard privacy, ensure data security, prevent duplication of efforts, and assist departments in identifying technically qualified firms for project implementation, it said. "AI-ML cell, which has been operational since last year, now vets all AI-related projects as per the latest government order. This will help prevent duplication and enable departments to identify the right solutions and firms to execute the projects, as the technology is still evolving," Dileesh Sasi, chief executive officer, Center e-Governance, told Moneycontrol. Also read: Karnataka Examinations Authority to deploy AI to prevent impersonation The empowered committee, in place to review e-Governance projects, would also oversee the implementation and monitoring of AI/ML initiatives. “This decision has been taken to institutionalise and streamline the adoption of AI in the public sector,” the order said. To facilitate this, the State AI Review and Advisory Committee (SARAC) has been tasked with supervising the progress of AI/ML projects under the CEO of Center e-Governance. Also

read: Karnataka launches AI-powered single window system for investors The committee will review and approve projects in line with government policy and budgetary norms, assess their feasibility and public impact, and ensure compliance with data privacy, security, and ethical standards. It is also tasked with identifying and mitigating potential biases in AI systems, promoting collaboration across departments to avoid duplication, and monitoring project performance to ensure accountability and effectiveness. In case of misuse or failure of AI systems, SARAC is empowered to intervene and address crisis/systemic issues, it adds. Also read: Karnataka Budget proposes AI Cell for governance, allocates Rs 50 Cr for Centre for Applied AI Discover the latest Business News, Sensex, and Nifty updates. Obtain Personal Finance insights, tax queries, and expert opinions on Moneycontrol or download the Moneycontrol App to stay updated! Find the best of Al News in one place, specially curated for you every weekend. Stay on top of the latest tech trends and biggest startup news.

