AI camera surveillance to reduce road accidents Kerala government is planning to bring important roads in the state under the scanner of AI-based cameras to reduce road accidents by half in two years. According to the safety experts, traffic rules could be enforced effectively once the software evaluates the violation of the traffic rules. Then, the fines will automatically come into being. Once the model captures the breach of the road rules, the footage will go directly to the central government’s server. AI and data analytics training for efficient policing One of the departments in the country, skilled in technology, Kerala Police has stepped up to provide training in disruptive technologies of AI and Data analytics. The objective of this step is to stay ahead in the era of digital transformation. A training programme is specially designed by the country’s first on-campus digital university, the Digital University of Kerala to aid the police department in their novel venture. AI-enabled platform to quickly induct human resources with the best talents Under the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), a company has created an artificial intelligence (AI) enabled platform to quickly induct human resources with the best talents without altering the existing recruitment process. The AI platform called Zappyhire uses Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing technologies to smarten the recruitment process by automatically reaching out to the candidates. It also studies the candidate's portfolio to educate the interviewer about the candidate as per their requirements. The platform has helped a hospital hire 60

nurses in 36 hours amid the Covid-19 crisis. Kerala's CoronaSafe Network, an open-source software built entirely by volunteers, has mobilised crucial COVID19 medical resources and supplies, using analytics and realtime data-driven updates. This effort is successful in Ernakulam and Kochi. The software has various elements including telemedicine call management, directory of ambulances, blood banks, food delivery services, hospitals, number of beds and oxygen supply points. The dashboard provides realtime analytics of beds, ICUs and ventilators, realtime oxygen monitoring, capacity visualisation for load balancing, facility management with inventory tracking, triage, telehealth facilities, integrated ambulance shifting, patient management and clinical data visualisation. Introduction of coding into school curriculum Kerala could claim the title of being the first state where coding was first introduced into the curriculum of one of its schools, right from class I onwards. Dayapuram Residential School in Kattangal, Kozhikode, was the first school that started coding sessions and classes on AI for kids at a very young age. This was made possible by the efforts of the Kerala-based startup Cyber Square. Kerala launches multiple courses in AI/ML for graduates The Kerala government has taken a special step to improve the employability of its technical graduates and professionals in the emerging fields of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). The Additional Skills Acquisition Programme (ASAP) of the state’s Higher Education department has launched a new AI and ML course for this purpose.

