Manipur govt signs MoU with Samsung and Abhitech to set up sports digital experience centre in Imphal With the setting up of the Digital Experience Centre, various achievements of Olympians from Manipur will be digitally displayed making the public aware about their achievements. Giving an impetus to Digital India, the Manipur state government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with tech-giant Samsung Data System India and Abhitech IT Solutions on Wednesday for setting up a world class ‘Sports Digital Experience Centre’ as a part of Manipur Olympian Park and at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex. Special secretary, Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of Manipur, Namoijam Kheda Varta Singh, Tae Heun Kim, director of Business Development, India and SAARC, Samsung Data System India, and CEO and director Abhitech IT Solutions, Amit Mohan Srivastava signed the agreement at a special program. The MoU was exchanged in the presence of Chief Minister N. Biren Singh at the cabinet hall of Chief Minister’s Secretariat in Imphal. On the occasion, CM Biren Singh said that the government was giving much emphasis on construction of Manipur Olympian Park so that younger generations and players could get motivated with the activities and achievements of the Olympians. He was also hopeful that the construction of Manipur Olympian Park would be completed within 100 days. With the setting up of the Digital Experience Centre, various achievements of Olympians from Manipur will be digitally displayed making the public aware about their achievements. Achievements of other players will also be displayed

at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex. He said that such initiatives will help in improving and enhancing the performance of sporting talents through latest technologies like sports analytics, virtual reality and mixed reality among others. It will also motivate younger generations to opt sports as a career, he added. Sports minister Govindas Konthoujam, chief secretary Rajesh Kumar, additional chief secretary V. Vumlunmang, director, Youth Affairs and Sports T Phulen, representatives of Samsung Data System India and Abhitech IT Solutions, members of Editors’ Guild Manipur (EGM) and other officials were present during the MoU signing. It may be mentioned here that Manipur Olympians’ Park is being constructed at Sangaithel, where statues of the 19 Olympians will be installed as a mark of honour for their dedication in the field of games and sports. Special secretary, Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of Manipur, Namoijam Kheda Varta Singh, Tae Heun Kim, director of Business Development, India and SAARC, Samsung Data System India, and CEO and director Abhitech IT Solutions, Amit Mohan Srivastava signed the agreement at a special program. The MoU was exchanged in the presence of Chief Minister N. Biren Singh at the cabinet hall of Chief Minister’s Secretariat in Imphal. On the occasion, CM Biren Singh said that the government was giving much emphasis on construction of Manipur Olympian Park so that younger generations and players could get motivated with the activities and achievements of the Olympians. He was also hopeful that the construction of Manipur Olympian Park would be completed within

100 days. With the setting up of the Digital Experience Centre, various achievements of Olympians from Manipur will be digitally displayed making the public aware about their achievements. Achievements of other players will also be displayed at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex. He said that such initiatives will help in improving and enhancing the performance of sporting talents through latest technologies like sports analytics, virtual reality and mixed reality among others. It will also motivate younger generations to opt sports as a career, he added. Sports minister Govindas Konthoujam, chief secretary Rajesh Kumar, additional chief secretary V. Vumlunmang, director, Youth Affairs and Sports T Phulen, representatives of Samsung Data System India and Abhitech IT Solutions, members of Editors’ Guild Manipur (EGM) and other officials were present during the MoU signing. It may be mentioned here that Manipur Olympians’ Park is being constructed at Sangaithel, where statues of the 19 Olympians will be installed as a mark of honour for their dedication in the field of games and sports.

