3 lakh students, 7,500 teachers from 1,925 Govt- aided schools to receive AI-based personalised learning Nagaland government and Embibe, India’s foremost AI-powered learning and outcomes platform, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to make artificial intelligence (AI) powered education accessible to all students. This will help over three lakh students and 7,500 educators from 1,925 government-run and aided schools across the State with access to Embibe’s AI-led personalised and adaptive teaching and learning apps. This initiative is part of Embibe’s public sector learning intervention initiative that is set to impact over four crore students across 20 States in the 2023-24 academic year. The MoU was signed by School Education principal director Thavaseelan K and Embibe’s senior vice-president Devendra Gaur in the presence of Nellayappan B, deputy director of School Education and OSD to chief minister. Announcing the launch of the collaboration, Thavaseelan said the partnership with Embibe was in alignment with the State government‘s continued efforts to impart the best quality education to students. He mentioned that the government was glad to partner with the company to equip teachers and students with Embibe’s AI-powered teaching and learning apps, thereby significantly enhancing the quality of education. With the app turning into a personal guide, he mentioned that students would be able to identify gaps in their learning, behaviour and skills, while the teachers would be able to significantly scale up personal attention on every child. Commenting on the partnership, Embibe founder and CEO Aditi Avasthi claimed that the company had

completed a decade-long journey to make truly personalised education accessible to every child, irrespective of his or her socio-economic background or language of learning. She disclosed that Nagaland was the first State in the Northeast to partner with the company. She said that the company was collaborating with the government due to a dedication to create a level playing field for all students, regardless of infrastructure or teaching quality. She said AI-powered products could create a huge impact on teaching-learning equation in Nagaland. She said Embibe was excited to work closely with the schools to achieve higher-quality teaching and learning outcomes for the State.

