PP Inks MoU with IIT Ropar in presence of DGP Al & Ml lab will help police in detecting criminal activities, understanding criminal behaviour : Yadav Punjab Newsline, Shimla, Januray 24- Taking the first step towards realising the vision of having AI-driven modern policing in the state, Punjab Police inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar for the establishment of first-of-its-kind in-house Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) Lab, said Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Gaurav Yadav here on Wednesday. The MoU was signed by ADGP Technical Services Punjab Ram Singh and Director IIT Ropar Professor Rajeev Ahuja in the presence of DGP Punjab Gaurav Yadav. SP Technical Services Punjab Sandeep Kaur Sandhu and Asst. Professor IIT Ropar Dr Santosh Kumar Vipparthi were also present. DGP Gaurav Yadav, while thanking CM Bhagwant Singh Mann for complete support to Punjab Police in its modernisation, said that this collaboration will not only pave the way for various technological innovations but will also help in harnessing the cutting-edge technologies for predictive policing, crime pattern recognition & analysis, facial recognition and intelligent decision-making. He said that where AI can assist the Police in the detection of criminal activities and fraud by identifying patterns and trends in large volumes of data, on the other side, ML algorithms can help understand criminal behaviour and allocate resources accordingly. The lab will also help in optimising the deployment of manpower based on real-time data, he said. Sharing more details, ADGP

Ram Singh said that in the present era, the rapid progress in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence holds the potential to transform the operations of law enforcement agencies. He said that this initiative, which is driven by the goal to leverage state-of-the-art technologies, will further help enhance law enforcement capabilities, improve public safety, and foster innovation in AI-driven security solutions. This initiative reflects the commitment to exploit the advancements in ML and AI for revolutionizing law enforcement practices and enhancing security measures throughout Punjab, he added. Meanwhile, the lab will also play a crucial role in automating the generation of reports and paperwork, saving time of officers and administrative staff. AI-driven dashboards can provide law enforcement agencies with real-time analytics and insights into ongoing operations and events, improving situational awareness. Vigilance arrests Balvir Singh, accomplice of AIG Malwinder Singh Sidhu Punjab Newsline, Chandigarh January 24 - The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) has arrested accused Balvir Singh, a resident of village Alampur, District Patiala, who was an accomplice of accused Malwinder Singh Sidhu, AIG, Human Rights, Punjab. He was wanted in a corruption-cum-criminal case registered by the VB as he used to submit complaints against employees in their departments and exhorted money by blackmailing at the behest of above said police officer. Disclosing this here today an official spokesperson of the state VB said the Bureau has secured a 5-day police remand of accused Balvir Singh in order to recover the weapon always kept by him on his person as well

as to identify and ascertain the involvement of more persons. Giving more details the spokesperson informed that in this regard the Bureau, on the basis of a Vigilance Enquiry, has registered a case FIR No. 28, dated 30. 10. 2023 under sections 7, 7-A of Prevention of Corruption Act and 384, 419, 420, 120B, 201 of IPC at police station, Vigilance Bureau, flying squad-1, Punjab at SAS Nagar. The said AIG Sidhu, his accomplice Balvir Singh and other accused were involved in this case. AIG Sidhu was already in judicial custody in the above said case. He further added that during the probe it was found that AIG Sidhu misrepresented himself as IGP, Vigilance Bureau, Punjab, along with above said Balvir Singh and other accused, thereby used to initiate complaints against government employees, only to subsequently withdraw these in order to blackmail them and get illicit gains. Mentionably, this police officer had never held positions of AIG or IG within the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab since 2017. He informed that it has came to light that AIG Sidhu had misused the government vehicle, Ertiga (PB-65-AD-1905) as fuel and other expenses were being drawn from the government account. However, he never maintained records of vehicle usage (log-book) which amounted to misuse of government property. The spokesperson further added that afore mentioned Balvir Singh, at the behest of AIG Sidhu used to submit complaints against employees in different departments who had presumably been recruited under the Scheduled Castes and Freedom Fighters quota in

order to pressurize and blackmail them in lieu of bribes, which were shared by him, Malwinder Singh and the other accused. Further investigation into this case was under progress and remaining accused would be arrested soon, he added.

