The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) and eGov Foundation (eGov) have signed a renewed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to expand the mSeva program and bring targeted innovation to urban governance across the state. The MoU builds on eGov’s long-standing relationship with the government of Punjab, which began eight years ago. This became mSeva, a national initiative by the Indian government to make public services accessible through mobile apps and online portals. Built on eGov’s open-source, interoperable platform, DIGIT, mSeva is now operational in 165+ Urban Local Bodies across Punjab. “We want to take our work with eGov to the next level.” – Tejveer Singh, IAS, Govt of Punjab The renewed MoU is a multi-pronged plan to further improve municipal service delivery by strengthening three core areas: technology systems, policy frameworks, and revenue strategies. The current focus is on using the existing solutions to improve compliance, monitoring, discretionary approvals, and revenue mobilization. The long term roadmap also seeks to include the use of AI to enhance citizen-centric public service delivery. - Author's Name eGov Foundation - Posted On 09th May 2025 at 20:48 PM Tejveer Singh, IAS, Additional Chief Secretary to Government of Punjab, Department of Local Government, emphasised the urgency of change. He also called out the need to fix systemic gaps that may slow down processes. “We want to take our work with eGov to the next level,” he said, emphasizing revenue augmentation and systematic monitoring of processes to increase operational efficiency. The MoU’s scope of work covers:

- Adoption of AI and automation to support predictive planning, citizen engagement, and operational efficiency. - Use of mSeva as a policy implementation layer, not just a service portal. - Strategies for improving revenue through analytics, compliance targeting, and billing automation. - Partnerships with startups and ecosystem actors to build modular solutions tailored to Punjab’s needs. “What started as a rollout in 2018 has now become a testbed for co-creating what digital urban governance can actually look like if we work together. Co-creation is our way forward.” -Viraj Tyagi, CEO, eGov Foundation This partnership marks both a continuation and a shift. “This is our eighth year working with Punjab. The state has always been a fertile ground for innovation – we began in Punjab, with the first installation of DIGIT in 2018 and now it is a national platform for urban governance, thanks to the work we are doing together,” says Viraj. In fact, the PMIDC’s steady efforts were recognised with a ‘gold award’ in the digital transformation category of the National Award for e-Governance in 2022. “What started as a rollout has now become a testbed for co-creating what digital urban governance can actually look like if we work together. Co-creation is our way forward,” Viraj added. The MoU commits both institutions to work through a joint governance framework, with a steering committee providing oversight and strategic direction. eGov will continue to support as platform steward and innovation partner, while PMIDC will lead on institutional integration and on-ground execution.

This phase of the partnership is focused not on expanding tech — but on using it to change how the system behaves.

