Rajasthan's First International AI Robotics Institute On 1 April 2025, a dedicated Institute of Artificial Intelligence , Robotics, and Cybernetics was inaugurated at NIMS University, Jaipur . - This institute is an important part of the agreement between the Government of Rajasthan and NIMS University under the ' Rising Rajasthan' initiative. - Its main objective is to make Rajasthan a global hub of digital innovation and artificial intelligence (AI) . - The institute will have 15 state-of-the-art laboratories, equipped with over 500 high-performance computers. - Moreover, the Institute has been recognised as the Indo-Pacific European Hub for Digital Partnership (INPACE) , which will promote digital cooperation between India and Europe. - The institute will promote cutting-edge research and development in the fields of AI, robotics and cybersecurity in collaboration with the European Union (EU) and other global organisations. - AI refers to the ability of computers or computer-controlled robots to perform tasks that are normally performed by humans because such tasks require human intelligence and judgment. - Although there are currently no AI systems that can perform a wide variety of tasks that a normal human can perform, some AI may be able to perform certain specific tasks that humans perform. - Deep learning (DL) technology enables automatic learning through large amounts of unstructured data such as text, images, or videos . - The ideal characteristic of artificial intelligence is its ability to take rational actions that achieve a specific goal. Machine learning (ML) is a type of AI. -

Establishment: It was founded by six countries (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) in 1951 after the Second World War (1939-45). - Current member countries: Currently it comprises 27 countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden). - Britain joined the European Union in 1973 and left it in the year 2020 ( Brexit ). - Demographics: In the European Union, Germany has the largest population and France is the largest by area while the smallest country is Malta. - Open borders: The Schengen Area allows free movement of most EU members, except for Cyprus and Ireland . - Four non-EU countries (Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein) are also part of Schengen. - Single market : free movement of goods, services, capital and people within the EU. - Climate Goals: It has set a target of being climate-neutral by 2050 and reducing emissions by 55% by 2030.

