Information Technology Department The Department of Information Technology (DIT) was set up in the year 2000 to implement the IT policy of the Government of Sikkim notified vide gazette notification no.: GO/3/DI/99 dated 31.03.1999. Since inception, the Department has attempted to implement and achieve the ultimate aim of an electronically connected and transparent government. The Department of Information Technology is working towards adopting technology to its highest and best use throughout Sikkim Government Department / Autonomous Bodies to improve the administration of State programs and services. An Apex committee, with the Chief Secretary as the Chairman has been constituted for effective implementation of e- governance schemes in Sikkim.In order to give a sense of direction to our endeavors and also to help achieve our objective in a time bound manner. The Department have taken some signification steps towards promotion of e-governance in the State. The Department has implemented various Mission Mode Projects (MMP), under the National e-Governance Plan (NeGP), Government of India (GoI), in the State of Sikkim, with the objective of providing service to the citizens at their doorsteps. It is working in line with the Mission objectives to promote and facilitate the effective integration of technology with governance, through planning, programming, training, consulting and other support activities. Some of the major achievement of the Department has been the successful implementation of the Cyber Village (pilot), which was implemented at 23-Melli Dara Paiyong Gram Panchyat Unit (GPU) and is the 1st Cyber village in the country to have been

successfully implemented, in recognition of which, the State has received accolades and awards at the highest levels. The State now aims to implement the Cyber Village in another 100 GPUs. The Government of Sikkim has formulated a policy on open data dissemination system known as “Sikkim has formulated a policy on open data dissemination system known as “Sikkim Open Data Acquisition & Dissemination Policy” (SODAAP). The SODAAP policy is designed both to provide authentic data to buttress the achievements of the Government of Sikkim and to gather data on key metrics to be able to spur growth in all the areas of human development. Subsequently, the Sikkim Open Government Data portal, sikkim.data.gov.in was launched on 10th June 2016. Sikkim is the first State in the country to have the Sikkim Open Government Data portal. Various services to citizens have been provided through State Portal e.g., in Human Resource Development Department (HRDD), and the Social Justice & Empowerment Department (SJED). The Department has lunched the issue of e-certificates for scheduled caste/ scheduled tribe, at the District Head Quarters level, on 9th July 2016, through the e-District project and in due course six other services were added. In order to improve the productivity in the Government Departments, DIT has developed both for the Android, windows and the IOS platform, where the tourists visiting Sikkim can get information on their handheld devices. In order to address the problems of telecommunication connectivity in the State, the DIT has been actively raising the issues at

various forums and high level meetings organized by the Government of India. DIT has conducted several meeting with the service providers to resolve the connectivity issue, and provide reliable and first ‘smart’ State of the country. In order to bridge the digital divide, Department of Information Technology has conducted various capacity building programmes for government employees in basic computer training, advance training, skill enhancement training, besides sponsoring officers for training programmes conducted by the National Institution of Smart Government (NISG), GoI. In association with the National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), D.I.T aim to conduct skill training programmes in the Electronic System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) discipline. The Department is also in collaboration with NIELIT is conducting a training for the group C and group D category staffs of the Government of Sikkim on the use of e-Government and Digital payments. To support the telecom infrastructure, Department of Information Technology has formulated the Right of Way policy which grants permission to the telecom service providers like BSNL, Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone etc. to lay optical fibre cable (OFC) and construct mobile towers across the State of Sikkim. The policy has been issued vide No. 10/DIT/2021, dated 02/07/2021.

