Recent Activities under Science and Technology EIACP Resource Partner on Ecotourism, Sikkim State Council of Science & Technology launched three Green Skill Development Programme (GSDP) certificate courses on 18 January 2025 at Sikkim Science Centre, Marchak: Nature Conservator-cum-Ecotourism Guide, Apiculturist (Wild Bee), and Non-Timber Forest Produce: Bamboo Crafts. The Regional Capacity Building Programme on Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF) Hazard Assessment commenced on January 7, 2026, organised by the Sikkim State Council of Science & Technology (SSCST) under the Science & Technology Department, Government of Sikkim. The training programme was conceptualized by Dr. Sandeep Tambe, IFS, Principal Secretary, Science & Technology Department, Government of Sikkim. The programme is structured into six technical modules scheduled from January 7 to January 31, 2026. The programme began with Module 1 on Electrical Resistivity Tomography (ERT). The forthcoming modules include Bathymetry Survey using Apache 3 & 4 (January 12–14), Data Analysis in ArcGIS Enterprise and Pro (January 16–17), Total Station and DGPS Survey (January 20–23), Drone LiDAR System (January 27–29), and Hydrology Equipment (January 30–31), with expert resource persons invited from reputed organisations across the country. The inaugural session of Module 1 included four resource persons from AIMIL Limited, New Delhi—Mr. L. D. Mahapatra, Senior General Manager and Head of Geophysical Division; Mr. Kaushik Sarkar, Deputy Business Manager; Mr. S. K. Sobhe Sadique Abedin, Senior Sales Engineer; and Mr. Srinjoy Paul, Sales Engineer. Shri D. G. Shrestha, Principal Director-cum-Secretary, Science & Technology Department, Government of Sikkim, graced the programme as Chief Guest and delivered

insightful inaugural remarks, underscoring the importance of advanced geophysical and hydrological equipment for effective GLOF hazard assessment and highlighting the Department’s inclusive approach in extending capacity-building initiatives to disaster-related organisations within and outside the state. The session was attended by senior officials including the Additional Secretary, Madam Baby Mukhia; the CAO, Madam Sukriti Tewari; Scientific Officer Dr. N. P. Sharma; Shri. Pranay Pradhan, Assistant Scientific Officer, and other scientific and research staff of the department. The session commenced with a welcome address by Dr. Prativa Rai, Assistant Scientific Officer, DST, Sikkim, followed by a programme overview presented by Dr. N. P. Sharma, who highlighted the need for strengthening technical capacity in advanced scientific tools for GLOF hazard assessment and their past applications by the department. The inaugural programme concluded with a vote of thanks proposed by Dr. Yangchenla Bhutia, Assistant Scientific Officer, DST, Sikkim. Participants of Module 1 represented institutions such as Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology (SMIT), Majitar; G.B. Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment, Pangthang; the Department of Mines and Geology, Government of Sikkim; and the Department of Geology and Geography, Sikkim University. The programme places strong emphasis on hands-on training through laboratory demonstrations and field-based equipment testing to enhance practical understanding of GLOF hazard assessment. Sikkim State Council of Science & Technology, Science and Technology Department, Government of Sikkim successfully conducted a state-wide AI training programme for government officials titled “Smart Proposals, Smarter Governance – One Day Training for Government Officials on AI Tools for DPR Preparation.”

Implemented across Pakyong, Gangtok, Namchi, Mangan, Gyalshing & Soreng districts along with 08 batches conducted for line departments at the Head Office., the programme marks one of the largest digital-capacity interventions undertaken by the Government of Sikkim. Objectives and focus areas of the training programme: The programme aimed to strengthen digital governance by equipping officials with practical AI skills essential for DPR formulation and administrative workflows. Key focus areas included: Conclusion : The programme significantly strengthened Sikkim’s administrative capacity by training 626 officials in AI-driven governance tools, enhancing project formulation, decision-making and documentation quality. The strong positive feedback and high demand from departments highlight its success, and the Science & Technology Department remains committed to advancing digital transformation and conducting further AI-based capacity-building programmes in the future. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India, has sanctioned a landmark ₹8.06 crore research project to revive Sikkim’s large cardamom. This heritage crop has long been the backbone of the state’s rural economy. Over the next three years, this fund will support India’s top biotechnology institutes—ICGEB, NIPGR, IBSD, NABI, and NCBS—to join hands under the national BioE3 Policy (Biotechnology for Economy, Employment, and Environment) to restore the vitality of this iconic crop. The initiative aligns with the State Government’s flagship mission, “Mero Alaichi, Mero Dhan” (My Cardamom, My Wealth), spearheaded by Hon’ble Chief Minister Shri Prem Singh Tamang (Golay). Large cardamom (Amomum subulatum), domesticated centuries ago in Sikkim by the Lepcha community, sustains nearly 20,000 farming families and is regarded as Sikkim’s

gift to the world. Once the driver of rural prosperity, the crop is now in crisis. More than 60% of plantations have turned unproductive, yields have halved, and plant lifespan has plummeted from 15–20 years to just 4–5 years. This decline has cost rural households nearly ₹318 crore annually, triggering widespread cash distress and threatening a cultural legacy. The root of the problem lies in clonal propagation through root suckers, which has weakened genetic diversity, leaving plants vulnerable to devastating viral and fungal epidemics. Soil degradation, heavy monsoon leaching, and ineffective interventions such as distributing diseased sucker plants have compounded the crisis. A baseline survey and national expert consultations convened by the Department of Science and Technology confirmed the urgent need for modern biotechnology to address this multi-causal decline. Accordingly, a multi-institutional research project was developed to utilise cutting-edge biotechnology in the revival of large cardamom. This newly sanctioned DBT project will pioneer advanced solutions—protein- and peptide-based antifungal formulations, lignin-based nano-biopesticides, RNA-based viral management tools, and microbial probiotics—ensuring full compatibility with Sikkim’s organic farming mandate. These interventions will not only help farmers manage immediate disease challenges but also lay the foundation for long-term genetic improvement and resilience. For the first time, farmers can look forward with hope that their traditional crop will regain its lost strength. This mission is more than agriculture—it is about securing livelihoods, protecting cultural heritage, and demonstrating how cutting-edge science can preserve a Himalayan legacy. Environmental Information, Awareness, Capacity Building and Livelihood Programme (EIACP) Resource Partner

on Ecotourism under Sikkim State Council of Science and Technology observed World Ozone Day 2025 at Sikkim Science Centre, Marchak, on 16th September 2025. The theme for this year’s World Ozone Day was “From Science to Global Action”. It highlights how scientific research on ozone depletion led to international cooperation and effective policies that are now helping to heal the ozone layer. More than 100 students from Biraspati Parsai Govt. Senior Secondary School, Baha’i Senior Secondary School, Saramsa and local public actively participated in the programme. As part of the observance, invited resource persons delivered presentations on key topics: An interactive session was also conducted to raise awareness among students on the importance of ozone and its vital role in protecting Earth and its life forms. In the concluding session, students were encouraged to spread awareness on the importance of preserving the ozone layer and avoiding the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl bromide. These chemicals release chlorine and bromine atoms in the stratosphere, which catalyze the destruction of the protective ozone layer. Such substances are commonly used in products like refrigerators, aerosols, and fire extinguishers. Science and Technology, Government of Sikkim is proud to host the National Consultation on Glacial Hazards a significant platform bringing together experts, researchers, and policymakers to discuss and address the challenges posed by glacial hazards and chart the path towards a resilient and sustainable future. The Hon’ble Governor of Sikkim, Shri Om Prakash Mathur, convened a

meeting with the Science & Technology Department at Raj Bhavan. The meeting had a detailed discussion on the Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF) 2023 and briefing on the present status of high-risk glacial Principal Secretary Dr. Sandeep Tambe, Director-cum- Secretary Shri Dhiren G Shrestha and officials briefed the Governor on a recent high-altitude expedition undertaken by an expert team after the devastating October 2023 South Lhonak Lake outburst. The team surveyed multiple glacial lakes in Mangan, identifying several as highly vulnerable to future breaches. Continuous monitoring and field validation are being carried out to scientifically assess the outburst potential and recommend timely mitigation measures. The multi-agency team includes experts from the Central Water Commission, Central Water & Power Research Station Pune, NIH Roorkee, Geological Survey of India, DRDO’s Defence Geoinformatics Research Establishment, National Institute of Disaster Management, Sikkim University, six State Government Departments, the Indian Army, ITBP, and local communities. The Governor expressed deep concern over the risks posed to life, property, and infrastructure downstream. He assured full support, provided valuable suggestions, and committed to raising the matter at the Central level for further support. Additionally, Dr. Tambe shared information on various other initiatives undertaken by the department. He specifically provided detailed insights into the ongoing research focused on the declining production of large cardamom and alarming rise in the cancer cases in the state of Sikkim Following the devastating South Lhonak Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF) of October 2023, the Government of Sikkim adopted a Whole-of-Government Approach to assess

high-risk glacial lakes and implement mitigation measures. As part of this initiative, a high-altitude scientific expedition was carried out in Mangan District from 20 August to 06 September 2025, bringing together over 35 experts from state technical departments such as DST, DMG, SSDMA, Sikkim Police, DDMA and IPR, along with national scientific institutions including CWC, GSI, CWPRS, NIH, NIDM, DGRE, HP SDMA, HP JSV and Sikkim University. Security agencies such as the Indian Army and ITBP also played a crucial role in providing logistics, communication and field support. The expedition focused on detailed hazard assessments of Shako Chho, Changsang, South Lhonak and Yulhe Khangse lakes through bathymetric, morphometric and geophysical surveys, while also undertaking structural feasibility studies at Dolma Sampa in the Lhonak valley and Sora Funnel in the Gurudongmar valley using UAV-based terrain mapping, DEM analysis and debris deposition studies. Early Warning System (EWS) sites were identified to enable real-time monitoring. These multi-disciplinary efforts are expected to refine GLOF hazard modelling, support the design of retention structures and strengthen the state’s resilience to climate-induced glacial risks while enhancing inter-agency coordination for effective disaster risk reduction in the Himalayas. Leveraging the power of AI tools can help to develop clear, well-structured proposals quickly and effectively. As an initiative in this direction, the Sikkim State Council of Science and Technology, under the Science and Technology Department, conceptualised a one-day training for state government officials titled ‘Smart Proposals, Smarter Governance’. The objective of this training was to equip state government officials to

use various AI tools such as ChatGPT, Gamma AI, Napkin AI, and Canva AI Magic Studio for drafting proposals, presentations, and data analysis. The technical sessions were conducted by Dr. Prativa Rai, Assistant Scientific Officer (Master Resource Person), along with Kishore Gautam, Niraj Sharma, and Ujal Gautam as Technical Resource Persons. Following this training, the participants developed DPRs on their department-related topics using these AI tools and also presented them. As on date, a total of 7 batches comprising 80 officials from 23 departments including senior officials have completed this training successfully. The programme received an aggregate feedback rating of 4.7 out of 5, reflecting its success and relevance. With rising interest, more departments are registering for future batches. The Science and Technology Department plans to expand such initiatives to the district level in future. Cancer cases in Sikkim have been rising at an alarming rate. The Government of Sikkim is committed to supporting every citizen in the fight against cancer. Over the past few months, following the priority and guidance of Shri Prem Singh Tamang (Golay), Hon’ble Chief Minister, to emphasize cancer care in Sikkim, the Department of Science and Technology and the Health and Family Welfare Department have been collaborating closely. Cancer data from Sikkim over the last decade was thoroughly analyzed, revealing unique patterns related to cancer incidence, type, ethnicity, and spatial distribution specific to the state. This analysis was presented with the Department of Health Research and the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, along with

a request to implement state-specific interventions for cancer care in Sikkim. Following this, based on a request from the State Government, the Department of Health Research, Government of India, organised an expert consultation titled “Expert Consultation on Cancer Prevention and Control in Sikkim,”at the India International Centre, New Delhi on 28th July, 2025. The consultation was chaired by Dr. Rajiv Bahl, Secretary of the Department of Health Research and DG of ICMR. The consultation was attended by leading cancer experts from across the country, representing the ICMR, AIIMS, Tata Memorial Hospital, NICPR, NCDIR, other institutions, senior officials from the Department of Biotechnology, GoI, along with officials from the Department of Science and Technology and the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Sikkim. During this event, it was collectively decided to develop Sikkim as a model state for cancer prevention and early detection.It was also agreed to prioritise four cancers with high incidence in the state, namely stomach, oesophageal, breast, and cervical. Based on detailed deliberation, three priority areas were identified: The Sikkim State Council of Science & Technology (SSCS&T), under the Department of Science & Technology (DST), is the nodal department for Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) in Sikkim. The IPR Wing is committed to fostering innovation and safeguarding intellectual creations across the region. | SN | Program Title | Location | District | | 1 | Outreach program on IPR | Khamdong GVK | - | | 2 | IPR awareness program | Pakyong GVK | - |

| 3 | Awareness program on IPR | Ravangla GVK | - | | 4 | IPR sensitization program | Yangyang GVK | - | | 5 | Outreach program on IPR | Namthang GVK | - | | 6 | Awareness program on IPR | Sumbuk GVK | - | | 7 | IPR awareness program | Dentam GVK | West Sikkim | | 8 | IPR awareness program | Hee-Yangthang Sr. Sec. School | West Sikkim | | 9 | IPR awareness program | PNGSS School, Gangtok | East Sikkim | | 10 | IPR awareness program | Govt. Sr. Sec. School, Mangan | North Sikkim | | 11 | Outreach programme on IPR | Govt. Girls’ Sr. Sec. School, Deorali | East Sikkim | | 12 | Outreach program on IPR | Govt. Sr. Sec. School, Tadong | East Sikkim | | 13 | Sensitization program on IPR | Govt. Sr. Sec. School, Bojoghari | East Sikkim | | 14 | IPR awareness workshop | Sikkim Govt. College, Namchi | South Sikkim | | 15 | IPR awareness program | Lingdem, Dzongu | North Sikkim | | 16 | IPR awareness program | Passingdang, Dzongu | North Sikkim | | 1 | Traditional Culture & Intellectual Property Rights | | 2 | Trademark as a tool for strengthening services sector | | 3 | World Intellectual Property Day | A meeting on the status of GI registration for Sikkim Temi Tea and Sikkim Orange was held on

5th January 2016 at Vigyan Bhawan, Deorali, Gangtok. The meeting was chaired by the Principal Secretary, DST&CC and attended by representatives from S.Majumdar & Co. (legal attorneys from Kolkata), including Shri Monosij Mukherjee, and key stakeholders from Sikkim such as Shri Ravi Kumar, IFS (Managing Director), Shri Mohan Chamling from Sikkim Tea Estate, and Shri H.C. Pradhan, Additional Director (Fruits) from the Horticulture & Cash Crop Development Department (HC&CCDD), Government of Sikkim. All required documents were submitted to the attorney assigned by TIFAC at Kolkata. The stakeholders are currently awaiting a response and further action from the legal representatives. For the GI registration of traditional Lepcha crafts — Sikkim Dzongu Lepcha Hat (Sumuk Thyaktuk) and Lepcha Darri (Thokro) — the Patent Information Centre (PIC) is currently seeking additional financial support to continue the registration process and legal proceedings. Explore the latest research, updates, and resources at the Patent Information Centre (PIC)- Sikkim Website . Bioinformatics Sub DISC (Distributed Information Sub-Centre), Sikkim State Council of Science & Technology, was set up in the state in the year 2001 with the support of Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. Sikkim State Council of Science and Technology is an autonomous non profit public funded research and training organization established under Department of Science and Technology, Government of Sikkim. Research Area: Biodiversity, Biotechnology and Bioinformatics Bioinformatics centre since its establishment conducted number of trainings, workshops and seminar and actively involved in the promotion of bioinformatics in the state. Some of the highlights are as

under: Following trainings, workshops and seminars were conducted: | 1 | Completed a research on Molecular Docking Based In-Silico Assessment to Predict Drug Efficacy for Appetite Regulation to Mitigate Anorexia in MDR-TB Treatment. | | 2 | Dr. Renu Goyal, Post Doctorate Fellow from Ghent University, Belgium, completed her internship on Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in February 2025. | | 3 | Bioinformatics Education Programme (2025) among the bioscience schools of Sikkim is in process w.e.f. May to July 2025. In collaboration with Education Department, Government of Sikkim, ten bioscience schools have been selected including Bariakhop Government of Sr. Secondary School, Singtam Sr. Secondary School, Kewzing Government Senior Secondary School, Mangalbarey Government Senior Secondary School, Chujachen Government Senior Secondary School, Samdong Government Senior Secondary School, Hee Gyathang Government Senior Secondary School, Tashi Namgyal Academy, Paljor Namgyal Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Holy Cross School. | | 4 | Completed study on Actinomycetes genomic sequences to understand their genetic makeup, evolutionary traits, and protein peptide potential. | | 5 | Provided Winter and Summer Internship programmes to 7 research scholars from various institutions across India. | | 6 | Established One Nation One Subscription (ONOS) platform through DeLCON (Department of Biotechnology e-Library Consortium) for the support of the researchers | | 7 | Bioinformatics Education Programme (BEP) of Sikkim has been awarded for the prestigious 8th e-North East India Award. The award ceremony was held from 24th to 25th November 2023 at Royal Global University, Guwahati, Assam, following a comprehensive and competitive evaluation

process. | | 8 | Sikkim’s first Drug Designing workshop successfully concluded : A week-long hands-on training on Bioinformatics Drug designing was held from 20th to 25th March 2023. The training marked a historical chapter in Sikkim as it is happened to be the first ever Bioinformatics training specifically on “Drug Designing”. The participants were PhDs, Assistant Professors and Research scholars from various institute such as Sri Ramaswami Memorial University (SRM), Sikkim University (SU), Sikkim Manipal Institute of Medical Science (SMIMS), Ashoka Trust for research in Ecology and Environment (ATREE), Government Pharmacy College Sajong (GPCS) and Himalayan Pharmacy Institute, Majhitar Sikkim. | | 9 | Bioinformatics Training on Genomics and Proteomics: A comprehensive training program on “Bioinformatics in Genomics and Proteomics Research,” from November 25th to 30th 2024, at the Bioinformatics Web Lab, Vigyan Bhawan, Deorali, Gangtok. The resource persons of the training programme were Dr. Sayak Ganguli, Assistant Professor, St. Xavier’s College, Kolkata and Dr. Laydong Lepcha, Assistant Scientific Officer, Bioinformatics Centre, SSSCST, DST. 20 research scholars from various research institutes have participated in this training. | | Sl. No. | Name of Journal | Web Link | | 1 | Basistha, B.C., Sharma,N.P. Lepcha,L. Arrawatia, M.L. Sen,A.(2009). Ecology of Hippophae salcifolia D.Don of temperate and sub-alpine forests of North Sikkim Himalayas- a case study.Journal of Symbiosis, Springer Science, Published online: 04 December 2009. | Visit Journal | | 2 | Laydong Lepcha,Misra,T.K. and Mandal,P. (2009). Relative distribution pattern of Tree Biodiversity in Landslide prone areas of east Sikkim,

India. Research in Environment and Life Science (RELS). Volume 2(4), pp.201-206 | Visit Journal | | 3 | Laydong Lepcha, Misra,T.K. and Mandal,P. (2009). Relationship of Biodiversity with soil parameters and vegetation buffers at Landslide prone areas of Sikkim. Journal of Hill Research, 22(1): 43-49,2009. | Visit Journal | | 4 | Laydong Lepcha, Roy,S.G. Sarkar,A. Basistha,B.C. and Arrawatia,M.L. (2011). Documentation of Medicinally important plants from the Landslide prone areas of East Sikkim, India: A survey Report. International Journal of Phytology. 3(7): Pp.01-07. | Visit Journal | | 5 | Laydong Lepcha, Misra,T.K. Mandal,P. and Ansari, A.A. (2010). Plant Biodiversity and soil erodibility of landslide prone areas of east Sikkim. Journal of Ecobiology. Volume 26, No.2. pp101-112. Lepcha,L., Roy,S.G. Sarkar,A. Basistha,B.C. and Arrawatia,M.L. (2011). | Visit Journal | | 6 | Documentation of Medicinally important plants from the Landslide prone areas of East Sikkim, India: A survey Report. International Journal of Phytology. 3(7): Pp.01-07. | Visit Journal | | 7 | Laydong Lepccha, B.C. Basistha, K.B. Subba, Rajdeep Gurung and N.P. Sharma (2012). A reckon on the conservation and sustainability of Abroma augusta Linn in Sikkim Himalaya. Journal of Medical Science and Research. (JMSR). Indian Journals. Vol.3,Issue 2, p35-39) | Visit Journal | | 8 | S.Pradhan, B.C Basistha,R.Basnett &A.Banerjee (2012). Chromatographic Techniques used for Investigation of Basic Bio-active Constituents of Highly Potent Species –Hippophae salicifolia from Hidden Forest of Sikkim. Sikkim Biodiversity Significance and Sustainability, pp. 80-91 | Visit Journal | | 9 | Laydong Lepcha, B.C. Basistha, K.B.

Subba, Rajdeep Gurung, N.P. Sharma (2013). . Medicinal value and microbial VAM incidence analysis of Bischofia javanica Blume in Sikkim Himalaya, India. The Journal of Ethnobiology and Traditional Medicine. Photon 120, pp650-655 | Visit Journal | | 10 | Laydong Lepcha, Basistha BC, Subba KB, Pradhan S, Gurung R, Sharma NP (2014). Understanding the Significance value of Rhododendron arboreum Smith Scarleti of Sikkim, India. International Journal of Engineering Science and Innovative Technology (IJESIT).Volume 3, Issue 4, July, p554-559 | Visit Journal | Explore the latest research, updates, and resources at the Bioinformatics Centre- Sikkim Website . The Bioinformatics Centre for the first time in the state managed to set up Online Access of research journals via DeLCON Consortium with the support of Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. The facility has been activated and is being used by the researchers and scholars in the state. Wide publicity amongst the scientific fraternities of different scientific institutes, colleges, government departments, doctors of hospitals, etc has been made through print media and information letters. DeLCON Consortium, DBT, Govt. of India DBT e-Library Consortium (DeLCON) , Govt. of India . The project “Establishment of State BioTech. Hubs (SBT Hubs) in Sikkim” is funded by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Govt. of India under a special programme for North Eastern States. It is coordinated by Biotech Consortium India Limited (BCIL), a Government of India enterprise. The project includes establishing state-of-the-art biotechnology infrastructure and a nucleus research centre. Total cost: Rs. 304.03 lakhs. Duration: 3 years. 1.

To promote Biotechnology and allied science in the state of Sikkim through R & D, training and awareness activities. 2. Development of trained human resources; promote entrepreneurship in the field of biotechnology and allied field. 3. To identify and work in the area that will helps to improve the socio-economic condition of the people through the application of biotechnology and allied 4. To undertake research and explore the prospect to solve the current the environmental, food, healthcare problems of state through the application of biotechnology and allied technology. 5. To work in tandems with the State Government policy and intervene on the areas which can assist in successful implementation of its policy. I. Undertake research on new product development; explore the solution of current problems of crops, environment, and healthcare through the application of biotechnology. Generate maximum awareness especially amongst students, teachers and researchers to inculcate interest in the field of biotechnology. Setting-up of Biotechnology Incubation Centre in Sikkim for entrepreneurs’ with the financial support of Government of India and State Government. Setting-up of Biotech labs in science labs of Senior Secondary Schools with the support of Department of Biotechnology, Government of India under BLISS programme. Setting-up of Regional Biotechnology Research and Training Institute in Sikkim. Generation of job oriented trained and skilled human resources in the field of biotechnology and allied field. | S. No. | Name of Equipment | Model No. & Brand | | 1 | Incubator shaker | Innova 44, New Brunswick scientific, USA | |

2 | Bio-Spectrophotometer basic | Eppendorf, USA | | Sl. No. | Title of the Research | Status | | 1 | Antioxidant profiling of Curcuma angustifolia by DPPH method. | Accepted: IJLBPR (ISSN 2250-3137) | | 2 | Antioxidant profiling of medicinal plants Hippophae salicifolia by DPPH method | Communicated | | 3 | Isolation of spores from Citrus reticulata roots soil samples | Communicated | | 4 | Antimicrobial, antioxidant, phytochemical study of Vaccinium sikkimense | Communicated | | 5 | Molecular studies on 15 varieties of Sechium sp. | Ongoing | | 6 | Micropropagation protocol for Stevia rebaudiana & Asparagus racemosus | Ongoing | | 7 | Micropropagation of Bambusa nutans & genetic diversity in Sikkim Himalaya | Ongoing | | 8 | In vitro propagation and molecular studies of Musa paradisiaca varieties | Ongoing | | 9 | In vitro propagation & antioxidant study of Rattan species | Ongoing | | 10 | Phylogenetic studies of 36 Rhododendron species | Ongoing | | 11 | Documentation of medicinal plants used for diabetes in West Sikkim | Communicated: Journal of Indian Traditional Knowledge | | 12 | Seabuckthorn - A Secret Wonder Species: Review | Accepted: SMU Medical Journal | | 13 | Rattan - Neglected Climbing Tree - An Overview | Communicated | | 14 | In vitro antibacterial, antioxidant activity of 5 ginger cultivars | Accepted: International Food Research Journal | | 15 | Micropropagation of Amomum subulatum | Published: IJLBPR (April 2014) |

| 16 | Genetic diversity of 5 ginger cultivars using RAPD | Published: SMU Medical Journal (Jan 2014) | | 1 | Hands on training to the coordinators of institutional hubs on molecular biology techniques, plant tissue culture, anti-oxidants, pollen & anther culture. | | 2 | Hands on training to the science post graduate teacher on basic molecular biology techniques. | | 3 | Strengthening of laboratory with necessary instruments to carry out various researches. | | 4 | Training to the post graduate science students on basic laboratory techniques and molecular biology. | | 5 | Taking PhD students from this year. | | 6 | Development of polyploid large cardamom, pure line selection for breeding and development of disease/drought resistant hybrid. | | 7 | Pollen genomic studies of Rhododendron species of Sikkim Himalaya. | | 8 | Bio-prospecting of local medicinal plants. | | Sl. No | Publication Details | Impact Factor | | 1 | Talambedu Usha, Sushen Pradhan, Arvind Kumar Goyal, Bharat Chandra Basistha, Sushil Kumar Middha et al. (2017). Molecular Simulation-based Combinatorial Modeling and Antioxidant Activities of Zingibereceae Family Rhizomes, Pharmacogn Mag. 13(3), 715-722. | 1.7 | | 2 | Amrit Kumar Panda, Satpal Sigh Bisht, Bodh Raj Kaushal, Surajit De Mandal, Nachi muthu Senthil Kumar and Bharat C. Basistha (2017). Bacterial diversity analysis of Yumthang hot spring, North Sikkim, India by Illumina sequencing, Big Data Analytics, 2,7. | - | | 3 | Swastika Gurung, Veena Pande, Faristha Yasmi, B.C. Basistha (2017).

Algal diversity in the sacred lake of Tung Kyoung, Dzongu, Northern Sikkim, Phykos. 47(2), 95-99. | - | | 4 | Pratima Ghimiray, B.C Basistha, K. K. Biswas, Veena Pande (2018). Incidence And Molecular Diagnosis Of Citrus Tristeza Virus In Mandarin (Citrus Reticulata) Orchards Of Sikkim, CIBTech Journal of Biotechnology, 7(1), 1-7. | - | | 5 | Sushil Middha, Talambedu Usha, Bharat Basistha, Arvind Kr. Goyal (2019). Amelioration of Antioxidant potential, toxicity and anti-hyperglycemic activity of Hippophae salicifolia D. Don leaf extracts in alloxan-induced diabetic rats. 3Biotech 09:308. | - | A programme on celebration of National Science Day 2025 with the theme : Empowering Indian Youth For Global Leadership in Science & Innovation for Vikshit Bharat and a plantation programme on the occasion of World Environment Day 2025 was organized by Sikkim State Council of Science and Technology, Science and Technology Department, Government of Sikkim today at Sikkim Science Centre, Marchak. Following the inaugural speech by Shri. Suman Thapa, Director, Sikkim State Council of Science and Technology Plantation of saplings in the compound was conducted wherein officals, staffs of DST and escort teachers from different schools participated in it. Following the programme, Resource Person Smt. Usha Lachungpa, Retd Principal Chief Research Officer gave presentation on the theme of National Science Day and Smt. Dawa Choden Bhutia, Panchayat, Phadamchen Village gave presentation on Waste Management. Painting Competition, Science Talk Competition and Essay Writing Competition was also organised for the school students of Pakyong and Gangtok District on the theme

of National Science Day 2025. Programme concluded with pledge on Mission LiFE, certificate distribution and group photograph.

