Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Driven Entrepreneurship (AIIDE), Center of Excellence, Noida Government of Uttar Pradesh understands the importance of AI & entrepreneurship in the coming future, so to facilitate this the government under its flagship scheme “Start in UP” has entrusted FIRST IIT Kanpur to establish Artificial Intelligence and Innovation-Driven Entrepreneurship, Centre of Excellence which will be established at Noida with FICCI as their official partner. The Centre of Excellence will focus on specific verticals and help incorporate, incubate and accelerate start-ups from the stated sectors like AI, ICT, IOT, Cyber, Augmented Reality and more. - Startups registered with DPIIT and Start in UP websites - Startups who are working on developing products and services in the field of AI/ML - Startup who wishes to add AI as their support in their existing Products & Services The start-up must be incorporated as a - Private Limited Company (as defined in the Companies Act, 2013) or - Registered Partnership Firm (Regd. under section 59 of the Partnership Act, 1932) or - Limited Liability Partnership (under the Liability Partnership Act 2008) - The date of registration/incorporation must not be beyond 10 years. Start-up should have an annual turnover not exceeding Rs. 100 crore for any of the financial years since its incorporation. - An entity should not have been formed by splitting up or reconstructing an already existing business. Innovative & Scalable Entity working towards innovation, development, or improvement of products, processes, or services or if it is a scalable business model

with high potential of employment generation or wealth creation. - Step 2: Roadshows for program outreach - Step 3: Online Evaluation of applications - Step 4: Monitoring & evaluation of start-ups - Step 6: Expert Evaluation of filtered application - 50 start-ups selected each year in two cohort’s 1st cohort starting from October to march and 2nd cohort starts from April to September - Each selected start-ups will receive training and mentor support for 6 months. Later on, they will be given an opportunity to present their ideas Infront of investors and VCs. - Support to start-ups for technology upgradation - Access to world-class infrastructure and labs of IIT Kanpur - Access to the professional network. - Mentorship from the field of emerging technologies and management from India and other countries. - Access to the great minds working together in the incubation. - Access to the seminars organised by FIRST IIT Kanpur.

