Kolkata: An artificial intelligence-based protocol is being developed by the state health department for the quick identification of breast cancer patients in Bengal. Funds were sanctioned to IPGMER to develop an app, in collaboration with an IT firm, to help identify those likely to have the disease, based on data collected by Asha workers that will be fed into the system. The initiative is part of a series of measures undertaken by the health department for the quick diagnosis of breast cancer. Oct is being observed as ‘pink month' or breast cancer awareness month across the country. Research work is in progress, and IPGMER experts, led by Diptendra Sarkar, have zeroed in on three basic inputs to be fed into the app to identify the degree of risk. "This is an AI-based protocol of which the app will be an integral part and the first of its kind in the world. It will be uploaded onto the smartphones of Asha workers, already reaching every village, town and city in Bengal to identify women with symptoms. They will seek basic inputs, including if there is a lump in the breast and whether the patient has breast discharge. If a woman has either of the two or both, she will undergo an ultrasound check at the nearest district or state hospital, and the result will be uploaded into the system. It will be accessible on the app on a real-time basis, enabling Swasthya Bhavan to have a ready list of suspected patients,"

said Sarkar. The app will assess the ultrasound report and categorise patients as ‘high-risk' and ‘low-risk'. The former will be sent for a mammography to detect breast cancer, while the latter will be kept under vigilance. "We have just received the fund and have started working on the app. It should be ready in five to six months," added Sarkar. The health department is also ready to launch a separate app for Asha workers to collect and upload the names, addresses, locations and an ID number of each suspected breast cancer patient across Bengal. The data will be tracked at Swasthya Bhavan until each suspected patient is treated at the district or nearest state hospital. This app will also upload the test reports. "We will train 618 urban Asha workers at SSKM who will collet data from across Kolkata," said Sarkar. Introduced a year ago, the ‘pink corridor' initiative was showcased as the ‘Bengal Model' of treating the disease at the annual conference of The Association of Breast Surgeons of India (ABSICON) two months ago. As many as 59 lakh women in Bengal were screened , with 29,000 identified as ‘suspects' and 1,900 diagnosed with the disease.

